Client Quantitative Analyst I
Apply
locations
Plano
Addison
Phoenix
Chandler
Fort Worth

View All 8 Locations
time type
Full time
posted on
Posted 30+ Days Ago
job requisition id
25045539
Job Description:

At Bank of America, we are guided by a common purpose to help make financial lives better through the power of every connection. We do this by driving Responsible Growth and delivering for our clients, teammates, communities and shareholders every day.

Being a Great Place to Work is core to how we drive Responsible Growth. This includes our commitment to being an inclusive workplace, attracting and developing exceptional talent, supporting our teammates’ physical, emotional, and financial wellness, recognizing and rewarding performance, and how we make an impact in the communities we serve.

Bank of America is committed to an in-office culture with specific requirements for office-based attendance and which allows for an appropriate level of flexibility for our teammates and businesses based on role-specific considerations.

At Bank of America, you can build a successful career with opportunities to learn, grow, and make an impact. Join us!
 

Job Description:
This job is responsible for supporting analytical work efforts for various projects within a Line of Business or business discipline. Key responsibilities include leveraging databases to acquire client and performance data, transforming extracted data into meaningful insights and trends, and delivering those insights to leaders to make complex business decisions. Job expectations include working with business partners to understand, coordinate, and deliver agreed upon priorities while communicating complex data outputs and delivering the appropriate summary and data required.

The Operations Data Control (ODC) team provides support to various Global Operations LOBS by providing data analysis in order to detect data anomalies.  Our goal is to provide an automated-alert, data-anomaly, detection system.  This system will utilize various data storage technologies across the bank, perform statistical analysis techniques on subject data, and deliver reports and alerts through BI and email to subject matter experts for potential remediation.

Responsibilities:

Supports the extraction of data using a variety of a programming languages, such as SQL, SAS, Python, or Spark/Scala, and applies knowledge of relational and non-relational database systems housed on both on-premise and off-premise (hybrid) platforms
Connects provisioned data across multiple sources and performs necessary transformations utilizing both technical, business, and process knowledge to transform data into meaningful values and insights
Performs quantitative techniques and analysis on customer, transaction, and performance data with the guidance from other analysts and supervisors, based on questions provided by business partners, and provides actionable insights for business partners to make informed decisions.
Follows requirements developed by other analysts and supervisors to perform required research, analytics, and exploration on appropriate and accurate data sources to provide appropriate deliverables
Communicates complex subjects in a simple and engaging manner to non-technical and technical business partners using software such as Power Point, Word, Excel, and Tableau
Assists with conducting quality comparison checks on analysis output and escalates data inconsistencies, gaps, or issues to leadership
Follows quality workflow process and documentation requirements to adhere to standards and provide business continuity
Required Qualifications: 

• Must have  4+ years of Tableau report development
• Must have 4+ years of SQL coding/reporting
• Excellent analytical and verbal/written communication skills
• Strong presentational skills and ability to communicate complex ideas and theories
• Ability to multi-task, prioritize and manage time to strict deadlines (i.e. can demonstrate effective time and workflow management skills)
• Works collaboratively in a cross-functional team, learns from colleagues, and provides routine updates on calls related to projects.
• Strong attention to detail, problem solving, strategic thinking, and analytical skills.

Desired Qualifications: 

• Deep understanding on automation; Autosys, Alteryx, etc.
• Strong problem solving, conceptual thinking, attention to detail, and sense of urgency.
• Ability to manage through ambiguity and agile to process change.
• Self-starting, organized, proactive, and requiring minimal management oversight.
• Time management, analytical and organizational skills.
• Working knowledge of software version control systems such as BIT/GIT Bucket

Skills:

Business Analytics
Data Mining
Data and Trend Analysis
Analytical Thinking
Business Intelligence
Data Quality Management
Data Visualization
Application Development
Business Acumen
Continuous Improvement
Innovative Thinking
Quality Assurance
Shift:

1st shift (United States of America)
Hours Per Week: 

40